Vesher's ACID - pH
  (Selective Biotechnological Purifier & Acidifier)




                     Vesper
                                                  Catalyzes Research
                         SINCE 1978               Creates Products
                                                  Cares Customers
                                        VIsiON he Care Takers
Vesher's ACID - pH
                     (Selective Biotechnological Purifier & Acidifier)
Enteric bacteria and mycotoxins are responsible for a variety of problems in poultry production        system today, most
commonly used Organic Acid are formic, acetic, citric, propionic, sorbic, lactic etc., these Organic Acids and their salts
are generally regarded as safe (GRAS) for use in animal and poultry feeds.
OrganicAcids and their salts inhibit the microbial loads in feed, there by indirectly maintaining a desirable population of
beneficial micro-organisms in the Gut.
Organic Acids positively impact the performance in poultry and livestock by constantly keeping the pathogenic micro
organsims under check. Bactericidal action is exerted by pH that causes disassociation and release of Hydrogen, that
alters the bacterial metabolism, depleting its energy and causing its death.
                                                                                       components by both bacteria and
Organic Acids reduce pH of the Gut, the acidified digesta reduces production of toxicincrease
fungus thereby reducing damage to the epithelial lining of the Gut. Lower pH helps            the gastric proteolysis and
protein/amino acids digestibility.
COMPOsITION
Organic Acids (Ascorbic, Citric, Sorbic, Formic, Acetic, Propionic), Ammonium formate, Ammonium propionate along
with yeast extract and fatty acids esters in activated base.
INDICATIONS
• ACID-pH helps to reduce the gut pH and makes it unfavorable for the multiplication of the disease causing micro
  organisms and fungus.
  ACID-pH improves nutrient utilization, reduces disease incidences and mortality to increase profits.
  ACID-pH is the best alternative to antibiotic growth promoters as there are least chances of development
                                                                                                                of
   antibiotic resistance of micro-organisms and reduces the duration and cost of treatment.
   ACID-pH helps improve the Gut micro flora there by reduces chances of recurring Gut infections and prevents the
   problems of loose dropping and improves litter quality.
USAGE INSTRUCTIONS
As Sanitizer: 1 ml per 10 Itr of drinkingwater regularly.
                                                                                 by the Veterinarian.
During Stress: 1-2 ml per Itr of drinking water for 5-7 days. Or as recommendeddrinking
Note: Do not use ACID-pH 24 hours before, during & after     vaccination through         water.
PRESENTATION: 5Ltrs Jar
             R
                   Manufactured by
                   VESPER PHARMACEUTICALS
    Vesper         Singapura, Vidyaranyapura Post, Bangalore - 560 097 INDIA
                   Customer Care No. 080 23254277
        SINCE 1978 Email     : info@vespergroupvet.com
                   Website :www.vespergroupvet.com                                                        Catalyzes Research
                  An 1SO 9001-2015 & GMP Certified Company
                                                                                                           Creates Products
                                                                                                           Cares Customers
