 esher'sIMPROVED
             THERMOCARE +C
                            BEAT THE HEAT
                                         WITH



                  (Acombination of Electrolytes, Vitamins & Probiotics)




            60
             50
ENRICHED WITH/40
                  30


 NITROGEN
    ANDIONS
   NH,
                   20




                        Vesper
                                                                          Catalyzes Research
                            Since 1978                                    Creates Products
                                                                          Cares Customers
Vesfper's
    Helps Birds adopt to rising temperature andd discomfort of the summer months,,Relieves Stress,
    Provides Instant Energy, Corrects Electrolyte imbalance, reduces high Corticosterone Levels,
   Lowers Mortality Rate, Improves Feed Intake and Feed Conversion.
   THERMOCARE + C contains Electrolytes, Buffer Acids, Vitamin C, Sodium Salicviate
  polvsaccharides and Lactobacillus improved with AMMONIUM ION' and NITROGEN MOIETy
  to take care of the physiological variations during stress, especially during heat stress and
  brooding temperature variations, THERMOCARE +C also improves the nutrient availability by
  virtue of improved digestion,absorption and metabolism made possible by the probiotic and
   instantly available energy,
   HEAT STRESS, A DISASTER IN POULTRYINDUSTRY
  Severe economic losses due to heat stress is a common problem faced by the Indian
                                                                                              and
  poultry farmers. Electrolyte therapy, although appears to restore the electrolyte
                                                                                               the
  water balance of the system during stress conditions, is unable to effectively control
  losses as the variation in the birds's physiology is multi factorial. Since Sodium,
                                                                                         addition
  Potassium and Chloride are the main ions responsible for electrolyte balance,
                                                                                                 in
  of other ions such as Magnesium, Zinc, Manganese, Iron etc., is of no practical help
 maintaining homeostasis.
 The reduction in BMR due to thyroid suppression during heat stress
                                                                                    reduces the
                                                                                      respiratory
 availability of energy for essential metabolic reactions. Panting causes
                                                                             low feed intake and
 alkalosis. And not to forget, the nutrient availability is also less due to
                                                                                All these factors
 lower digestion and absorption as the defusion to the viscera is poor.
 collectively affect the bird's health and performance causing economic losses to the farmers.
                                                                                              take
 The remedial measures must be aimed at regulating the hypothalamus and simultaneously to
                                                                                       the first
 care of the variation in the bird's physiology. Vesper Pharmaceuticals has been
  explore theseavenues through Improved THERMOCARE +C.
 THERMOCARE + C, an already proven formula and known to every poultry farmer, is Coming to
                                                                        in touch with the
                                                                      to keep
 you now with Improved efficacy as a result of our continued efforts
 latest advancement in research and to provide the bestproducts for poultry performance.

                                                                                         Catalyzes Research
                                                                                         Creates Products
                                                                                         Cares Customers
                                                                             VISION eCare Zakens
Wesper's
  HEAT STRESS IN POULTRY BIRDS
   Alltypes of birds are sensitive to Heat stress.
• Hot weather management and Hot climate control are therefore crucial.
. Evaporative coling and Increasing the air velocity at bird level to 2-3meter/sec.
• Heat stress prevention/management
 . Insulation of water tanks and pipes.
• Water sprinklers on the roof to reduce house temperature.
  Supply of cool drinking water.
 . Avoid wet liter to reduce humidity.
 . More fatless carbohydrate to provide energy through feed.
   Fortifying water to provide energy. Vitamin C and Sodium Salicylate willhelp the birds
  adopt to high and rasing temperature.
    65-80°F            The desirable temperature under which chicken feels
                       comfortable and functions normally.
    81-95°F            Feed Consumption drops.

    96-100°F           For each degree rise in temperature 2-3% loss of feed
                       intake.

    101'F & above The temperature is often referred to as lethal or killing
                  temperature. The chicken passes into a state of shock
                  culminating death.

How willpanting influence pH or acid-base balance in the birds?
Normally, blood pH is controlled by the lungs and kidneys along with the various buffer systems
which prevent rapid changes in the pH. However,as the respiratory rate increase in heat stressed
birds, there is a corresponding decrease in the levels of blood carbon dioxide. Respiratory
Alkolosis (elevated blood pH) results. Heat stress also depletes potassium and other minerals in
the body, altering the delicate electrolyte balance in there body.


                                                                                      Calalyzes Research
                                                                                      Creates Products
                                                                                      Cares Customers
                                                                        VISIONhe Cae Taker
Vesper's
COMPOSITION
Flectrolytes, Vitamin C, Lactobacillus, Sodium-bi-Carbonate, Sodium Salicylate, Fortified with
Polysaccharides in instant Energy Bas
INDICATIONS
Stresses of alltype including heat stress.
USAGE INSTRUCTIONS
Feed:- Regular Use:- 250-500 gms/ton of feed.
       During Stress:- 1 kg/ton of feed.                                   Or as

Water Soluble Powder:- Regular Use :1          gm in 5 Liters of       recommended
                                             drinking water         by the Veterinarian.
                            During Stress :1 gm in 2 Liters of
                                             drinking water.
                                                              by the Veterinarian.
Liquid :- 1 ml/1-2 Itr of drinkingwater. Or as recommended
PRESENTATION                                            1kg X 20 nos per bag.
Feed:- 10 kgbag. Water Soluble Powder :- 500 gm tin and
Liquid:- 1lItr bottle, 5ltr jar and 30 ltr drum.
Note:- Don't use feed grade material in drinking water.



                                             Vesper
                                                    Since 1978

                                        Manufactured by:
                          Vesper Pharmaceuticals
                                   Post, Bangalore, Karnataka, 560097,
               Singapura, Vidyaranyapura
                           Ph: 080-23254255 Fax: 080-23254244
              Email: vespergroupvet@gmail.com Web: www.vespergroupvet.com
                                                           Company                     Catalyzes Research
                        An ISO 2008-2015 and GMP Certified                             Creates Products
                                                                                       Cares Customers
                                                                         VISIONhe Care Tadens
