sfer'
           Amichol
        Optimizes Choline Utilizati




                             R



                    Vesper

                        Since 1978
Veshers
  Choline occurs naturally in all ingredients and there is noconsistency in Choline content in the natural
  feed stuffs. Their bio-availability is highly variable, variation in content of Choline may occur due to
  variation in prevailing crop growth conditions, soil and location.
                               Choline contents of feed Ingredients
  Feed Ingredients                          Choline Content (mg/kg)
                                                   Feed/stuffs issue                   NRC1994
                                                            1100                         620
  Corn, yellow, grain
  Peanut meal and hulls(mechanical)                         1540                        1655
  Rapeseed oil meal (solvent)                               6700                         NA
  Rice bran, unextracted                                    1390                        1135

  Sorghum                                                    660                         668
  Soyabean meal, expeller                                   2673                        2794
  Sunflower meal, solvent                                   2900                        2894


  The main function of Choline is to act as lipotropic agent and prevents the abnormal fatty infiltration in liver
  (Fatty Liver syndrome), thus ensure proper metabolism of the body and effective utilization of nutrients.
  More over it helps in the formation of excitatory neurotransmitter -Acetyl Choline which is responsible for
  proper functioning of nervous system and maintains its harmony. Choline functions as a constituent of
  Acetyl Choline. Oviduct contraction and emptying of the crop is also stimulated by the release of Acetyl
  Choline.
  Choline also serves as Methyl donor. Choline after its conversion to betaine provides labile methyl groups
  for the formation of methionine from homocystine and creatine from guanidoacetic acid. Therefore,
  Choline spares dietary Methionine for other metabolic functions.

  Choline supplementation in broilers feed shows a linear response in weight gain up to 1.1 gm/Kg from 10
  22 days of age and increase in Choline up to 2gms/Kg further increases the weight gain, after 22 days, but
  over and above these quantities no significant weight gain is observed.

                Requirement of Choline for Broiler's (NRC - 1994)
                        0-3 weeks             4-6 weeks             7-8 weeks
                        1300 mg               1000 mg                750mg

                Requirement of Choline for Layer's (NRC-1994)
                0-6 weeks             7-12 weeks             12-18 weeks           18 weeks onwards
                1300 mg               900 mg                 500 mg                        500mg

  Layers & Broilers, have an essential requirement for Choline, which varies with
  age of the birds.
                                          Optimizes Choline Utilization
                                    Enhances Methionine Utilization
                                     Reduces Ammonia Production


            RMeatchytliaotnion            Pool
                                          GroupMethy            Methionine

                                                                S-adenosyl
                                                                Methionine
                                                                                       PoolGroupMethy
                                                                                                                   Methyl
                                                                                                                 tetrahydro
                                                                                                                   folate
                                                                                                                               Folate Vitamin
                                                                                                                                         B12



                                                                                                                                                Kųjwose(n4biUY
                                                                                                                                                o)
                                 Methyl
                                 Group                 Methyl                                           Methyl
                                                       Group                  Methyl                    Group
                                                                                                                   Betaine
                                                                              Group
                                                                S-adenosyl
                                                                homocystine                                                      Mitochondria
                                                                                                                                                dnaß
                                                                Homocystine                                           Methyl
                                                                                                                                      Choline
                                                                                                                                                jood
                                                                                                                      Group




Methyl groups(CH3 +) are essential for almost allthe metabolic activities in the animals. Vital reactions such
as protein synthesis, DNA and RNA synthesis, fat metabolism etc., are critically dependent upon the
availabilityof labile methyl groups. The body's requirement for methylgroup is primarily met by methionine
which is willing methyl donor. However, methionine is required for several other functions in the body.
Hence, methyl groups are obtained from other donors like choline and betane and are used up to convert
methionine back in to its original state.

Today's least cost diets are often marginally deficient in nutrients, especially like methionine, lysine, choline
etc.,Supplementation of such nutrients has become an essential part of formulating poultry diets. Since
methionine is acostly nutrient, restoration of methionine activity by use of choline chloride, an inexpensive
alternative, is in common practice. But,the actual requirement, the level of usage and the degree of
availability varies from bird to bird, farm to farm and feed to feed.
Choline, basically is not a methyl donor by itself. It has to be converted in to a liable donor, betaine, before
itcan donate methyl group. This conversion is found to be very efficient in animals. The uptake and
conversion of choline is also adversly affected by possible interaction with other feed components, gut
infection, infection, malabsorption, liver problems, low intramitochondria organic calcium/inorganic
phosphorous, deficiency/ inability of mitochondrial phospholipase, presence of ionophores/EDTA in diet
etc. The availability of the choline to the birds, thus is always incomplete. The solution to this problem is
not give more choline chloride. Rather, Giving the optimum quantity of choline chloride and improving its
availability would be the better option.

                                                                                                                                                                 Catalyzes Research
                                                                                                                                                                 Creales Products
                                                                                                                                                                 Cares Customers
                                                                                                                                      VISIONebae Tabers
                                         Amichol
                                Optimizes Choline Utilization
The specific polysaccharide moiety in Amichol triggers the activity of Phospolipase A2 from and conversion into
                                                                                           the
Pancreas and mitochondrial membranes thus improving transmembrane transport of choline              phosphorous in
betaine. While phospholipid ensures better absorption from the gut, organic calcium and inorganic
                                                                                                Vitamin  B6 and
Amichol assists the mitochondrial microenvironment for better uptake and oxidation of choline.
                                                                                             and its adverse effects.
sulphate radicals optimize methionine utilization. Lactobacillus reduces ammonia production
                                                                                               choline is fully met at a
As a combined effect, methyl group pool is optimally managed by Amichol and requirement for
lesser level of choline.

COMPOSITION
Polysaccharide 5000 ppm, Inorganic Phosphorous 5000 ppm, Choline 20 % with                            Amichol
Organic Calcium, Folic Acid, Pyridoxine, Sulphate Radicals, Lactic Acid Bacillus and               Optimizes Choline Utilization

Phospholipids in a fortified base.

INDICATIONS
•For better utilization of Feed
•For better utilization of Methionine.
• For improved growth, Production and FCR.
•For better liver health and performance.
                                                                                                                             VIsION




USAGE INSTRUCTIONS
500 gm to 1 kg per ton of feed
Or as recommended by the Veterinarian.

PRESENTATION
1 kg X 25 packets in a bag.



                                                       Vesper
                                                              Since 1978
                                                      Manufactured by:
                                             VESPER PHARMACEUTICALS
                           Singapura, Vidyaranyapura Post, Bengaluru - 560 097, Karnataka, INDIA
                                Ph: 080- 23254255/23254266/23254277. Fax: 080-23254244
                           Email : info@vespergroupvet.com.Website:www.vespergroupvet.com                                          Catalyzes Research
                                           An ISO 9001-2008 Certified Company                                                      Creates Products
                                                                                                                                   Cares Customers
