 ENDOMETH
|Look beyond synthetic methionine




         Take a few steps back, look again and youwill
            find amuch bigger and better picture.
     Look at Enterokinase & Methionine-Reconversion


  Sometimes, in our enthusiasm we give too much importance to certain
     aspects meanwhile missing out on the others. In our enthusiasm
       over the beneficial effects of methionine, we are concentrating
        too much on it. However, we have failed to take in to notice
            the possibilities of making ENTEROKINASE and
                  METHIONINE RECONVERSION
                         work for our benefits.
          Benefits of Enterokinase Stimulation




Methionine being the first limiting amino acid in poultry diets, all the other
amino acids present in the dietary protein will be utilized only to the extent of
the available methionine. Remaining amino acids will be deaminated and used
for energy process, which is relatively expensive.
To avoid this wasteful protein metabolism and to turn it into a benefit there are
two ways. One, increase the available methionine content by supplementing
crystalline methionine. Two, improve the overallavailability of natural dietary
methionine by an integrated approach.
Approach 1 - Supplementing Synthetic Methionine: While supplementing
synthetic methionine, we are considering that a calculated proportion of
methionine is coming from the feed ingredients. However, due to variation in
thequality of ingredients, most of the times we may not get the amount of
methionine we expected from the dietary source, even though it may be
physically present. Thus, even though we are supplementing a high level of
synthetic methionine, there might be still a deficit of methionine, which brings
down the performance of the birds greatly.
Approach 2 -Maximizing Methionine Utilization: Supplying protease,
though, could help to certain extent the benefit is only marginal. Eliciting a
greater enterokinase response to the presence of food thereby improving the
native protease activity is a possibility which appears to be significantly
beneficial. In addition, maximizing the conversion of trypsinogen to trypsin
helps in two ways (1) better protein digestibility leading to reduced requirement
for methionine supply and (2) Reduced requirement for Trypsinogen
production (Trypsinogen has a very high sulphur amino acid content and
requires higher amounts of methionine for its synthesis).
In both the above situations, Vesper's ENDOMETH helps the bird's system to
spare valuable methionine in poultry diets. Used in replacement of the
crystalline amino acid methionine, it can bring about better utilization of
methionine, protein and hence all the nutrients for a better productivity and
FCR.
           Enhanced MethionineReconversion
Whenever the body requires methyl groups, methionine is stripped of a methyl
group and in the process it is converted into Homocystine. This homocystine
can either be converted into cystine, a not-so-essential amino acid as compared
to methionine, or it can be reconverted into methionine in the presence of a
labile methyl donor donating methyl group. Many a times, even in the presence
of methyl groups, the reconversion of homocystine to methionine may not take
place due to lack of activation of the proper enzyme system involved.
Aminonitrogen in Endometh activates the coresponding enzyme system and
thereby promotes the reconversion of homocystine into methionine. Thus,
Endometh can reduce the requirement of Synthetic methionine in poultry diets.
Used in total replacement of the crystalline amino acid methionine, it can bring
about better utilization of methionine, protein and hence allthe nutrients for a
better productivity and FCR.



                ENDOMETH
                                                  CH*3


             Cystine Homocystine Methionine


                                                               CHS
Note: While you are using supplemental DL-methionine, you are not doing
anything to improve the reconversion of methionine (both natural and
 synthetic). Thus, the total methionine content of your diet is not being used its
fullest capacity. Endometh helps you maximize the reconversion of methionine
from the feed. Therefore, you can effectively exploit the natural methionine
activity for better performance and economy.
Brief Technical Information: Contents: Methyl donors and Aminonitrogen
in a base enriched with Natural enhancers of Enterokinase Activity,.
Uses: Toenhance the methionine value of feedstufts. Usage Instructions: In
synthetic methionine supplemented diets - Replace total synthetic methionine
content with equal quantity of Endometh. In non - supplemented diets - Add
100-150gm of Endometh for better feed utilization, productivity and FCR.
Availability: 20 Kg bags.
        Trial on the Efficacy of ENDOMETH to
         replace DL-methionine in broiler diets
A trial was conducted in commercial broilers to evaluate the efficacy of Endometh to
replace DL-methionine in broiler dicts and its economical impact.
The experiment consisted of S80 day-old chicks divided into two groups and reared on
common starter and finisher broiler diets, supplemented with either DL-methionine
(Control) or cquivalent proportion of Endometh (Endometh). The birds were reared for
42 days under common conditions- during
which observations were made.                         2.15             2.108

The birds were observed weekly for body                2.1
                                                                                  2.021
weight and feed intake, and FCR was                   2.05
calculated. At the end of the rearing, 10% of                      1.942       1.947
birds from each group were tested for antibody
titres against IBD (by ELISA) and ND (by HI).                                                FCR

Finally, observations were compiled and the                                               B.wt Kg
results were compared.                                       Control
                                                                       Endometh
Results pertaining to body weight and FCR are
given in fig. 1. Birds from Endometh group            Note:
were weighing on an average 5 gms more,              1. Farmer Rate of DLM taken as
and had consumed 153 gms per bird lesser,             Rs. 185/-per Kg. Farmer Rate of
resulting in a much better FCR (2.02)with            Endometh taken as Rs. 150/- per Kg
out oil. Immunity as indicated by antibody           Difference/Kg-35/
levels was similar for both the groups. After
calculating the Feed cost it was found that          2. If DLM is totally replaced with
                                                     Endometh, reduction in feed cost is :
Endometh resulted in an additional returns
                                                     Starter-52.5Rs/ton(@1500g/tom
of Rs. 1260/- per 1000 broilers as compared          additional methionine) and Finisher
to DL-methionine.                                    35Rs/Kg (@1000g/ton of additional
The above trial demonstrates the ability of          methionine).
Endometh to bring about a greater
reconversion of methionine and hence a better        3. Broiler farm-gate price is taken as
                                                     Rs. 30/- for calculations.
nutrient utilization in poultry, especially in
broilers. In the absence of such an influence, it
                                                      The trial was carried out under the
is assumed that the pure DL-methionine
                                                    Technical Supervision and Guidance of
activity may only try to compensate the growth
requirements by increasing the feed
                                                      Dr. B.S.Venkatarami Reddy,
consumption. However, such an increase in                         Professor & Head,
feed consumption may not be accompanied by             Department of Animal Nutrition,
an cquivalent growth rate, thus resulting in a               Veterinary College,
poorer FCR.                                               Univ. Agricultural Science
                                                         Hebbal, Bangalore - 560 024


                  Manufactured by :
                  Vesper Pharmaceuticals
  Vesper          Village Singapura, Vidyaranyapura Post,
                  Bangalore - 560 097 INDIA.
                  Ph/Fax : +91-80-2838 8942, 2838 8571.
