                     IMMOLYTE
   Contribution tothe Poultry Industry


                                                                              IMMOLYTE
                                                                              THE YOWTK TO HESIST




                                                IMMOLYTE
                                                 T PoWR TO KEse9T




                                                   The Power to Resist
                      The CHOICE Immunopotentiator
                      HL, TITRES FOR RANIKHET DISEASE
                                                                                                    SERUM GLOBULIN VALUES

                                                                                          2.3


                                                                    cONTROL WnAsNNa8O19   2.1
                                                                                           2.
                                                                                          1.5
                                                                                           1.
                                                                                          1.7
                                                                                          1.6
                                                                                          1.5



                                                                    IMOLYTE
                                                                                          1.4
                                                                                    6 1.3
                                                                                          1.2
                                                                                          1.1
                                                                                                      0   10        20   30   40
                                                                                  * IMMOLYTE TREATED      CONTROL


         The only Immunopotentiator to improve the immune system, not only in
                    healthy flocks but also in birds with damaged bursa.

Clinical data shows that Immolyte is the clear choice in augmenting cell mediated immunity as well
as antibody titres. Immolyte cuts down the incidence of diseases, reduces vaccination failures,
improves overall performance and reduces mortality. Immolyte enhances the efficacy of
antibiotics and thereby reduces the dosage and treatment period
                       IMMOLYTE
Today the market exhibits many "immunostimulant" products. Most such products are either mixtures
of certain vitamins and minerals or so called herbal products containing "Amla" (Gooseberries). It is
true that certain vitamins and minerals like Vitamin E, Vitamin C, Selenium etc., (and hence Amla,
containing Vitamin C) can help improve the immunity. But, the magnitude of such an improvement is
limited due to the fact that these nutrients are not always deficient and are provided in required
quantities in most poultry rations of today. Biologically speaking, giving more of these nutrients will
not simply increase the immunity correspondingly.

Fitness of the immune system depends on three important factors viz., Water-electrolyte balance
(generally referred to as homeostasis), nutritional fulfilment (expecially with respect to Vitamin E,
Vitamin C, Se etc.) and immune stimulants (antigens/antigenic associates capable of exciting /
arousing the immune system). While most products in the market provide for the first two factors,
they generally lack the immune stimulant factor which, in fact,is the most important component of an
immunopotentiator meant for poultry use.
Immolyte contains Glycine (an osmolyte) and electrolytes which maintain the water
electrolyte balance and preserve homestasis. Vitamins E and C, and Selenium, contribute to
a better cellular health and general immunity. Immolyte also contains unique immune
stimulation components like the aminonitrogen (antigenic protein) and specific
polysaccharide. Aminonitrogen in Immolyte (antigenic protein) produces non-specific
antibodies, andpolysaccharides act as a source of lymphokines improving the CMI. Bacterial
load on the bird is brought down by the combned effects of Lactoperoxidase system and yeast
nucleins. The overall effect of Immolyte, keeps the immune system prepared to react
spontaneously and effectively.
Brief Prescribing Information: Contents: Glycine, Vitamin E, Selenium, Vitamin C, Sodium
Chloride, Potassium Chloride, Sodium Citrate, Yeast nucleins, Aminonitrogen (Antigenic protein)
with Lactoperoxidase and polysaccharides in a fortified base.
Uses: Improves the antibody titers. Reduces vaccination failures. Reduces the incidence of disease
through improved CMI. Enhances productivity by reducing the incidence of subclinical infections.
Usage Instructions:
Immolyte Liquid: Chicks, Growers and Broilers : 5 ml per liter. Layers: 10 ml per liter,
Immolyte Feed Supplements:1 kg per tonof feed or as recommended.
Presentation:
Liquid:100 ml, 500 ml bottle and 5 Itrs Jar
Feed:1 kg pouch & 5 kg bags
Special Instructions: Use regularly during the first 2 weeks of chick's life. Thereafter, use 3 days
before and after vaccinations,deworming or any anticipated stress. Usage during outbreaks and
convalescence period is advisable.
       Manufactured by:
Vesper VESPER PHARMACEUTICALS
        Village Singapura, Vidyaranyapura Post, Bangalore - 560 097
        Customer Care No. 080 28388942,
        An ISO 9001-2008 Certified Company
