                         Neocalcium
                          |Feed Premix


           shell
          he
                                  with a
                                                     differern
  The saying "For every complex problem there is a simple solution."
  may be true in many general cases but proved to be wrong in particular
                       cases of mineral nutrition of birds.

Mineral interrelationships are very complex. In view of the different purposes
for which the birds are being reared, and with different ages and stages
of production mineral requirements do vary a lot. Especialy important are
         the vital macrominerals, Calcium and Phosphorous.

With so many calcium and phosphorous supplements being used,apart from
the mineral mix, shellgrit, DCP et., the poultry industry is, naturally, expected
to have no problems such as thin shelled eggs, broken eggs, shellless eggs,
 bone breakage problems, oste omalacea, rickets, etc. Unfortunately, the
 problems are      quite common. This clearly shows that something is
  missing in Calcium - Phosphorous nutrition and the supplemented
    calcium and phosphorous are not being utilised properly .
              Importance of Calcium and Phosphorous
         Calcium is essential for proper bone growth in growing
           animals, bone maintenance in adults and shell
              production in laying birds. Apart from this
                Calcium is also necessary for blood clotting
                     proper neuromuscular transmission
                          and       contraction      of
musle fibres, Absorption of Calcium from the digestive tract is adversely affected due to parasiti
 infestations,presence of oxalates and phytates in feed, higher levels of other cations such as lron
  Magnesium, Aluminium etc.., and improper ratio of Calcium and Phosphorous. Calcium
                                                                                           deficiency
leads to drop in egg production and incidence of thin shelled and shelless eggs in layers and mav leard
to crippling, lameness and death. The Calcium deficient broilers willnot be able to bear their own hed
weioht on their limbs due to osteoarthritis.This may lead to starvation, loss in body weight gain and
sometimes, death. Also bone breakage is more during tránsport in Calcium deficient birds resultinain
carcass rejection and economic losses.

Phosphorous has a very vital role to play in the energy metabolism of the body cells apart from t'e
bone forming functions. Phosphorous is an integral part of various structural and functional components
of the body such as cell membranes, membranes of organelle, nucleic acids, ATP molecules ote
Phosphorous, as Cyclic AMP, functions as secondary messenger in intracelular communication and as
phosphate buffer, maintains the homeostasis of the body fluids. Deficiency of Phosphorous results in
retarded growth and rickets. Improper Calcium-Phosphorous ratio upsets the phosphorous absorption/
metabolism and creates a deficiency. Phytate bound Phosphorous is not available to the birds as thev
lack the enzyme Phytase.

Magnesium is a vital divalent cation necessary for the birds. Both Calcium and Magnesium being divalent
cations, there is a competition between them for absorption. Hence higher levels of Calcium in the ciet
increase the requirement of Magnesium. Neglecting this may possibly result in marginal Magnesium
deficiency, stunted growth and lethargy in chicks and drop in egg production in laying birds.
Neocalcium granules contain Calcium and Phosphorous in the right ratio of 2:1, for proper absorption.
metabolism and utilization by the bird. Neocalcium granules contain Magnesium in order to overcome
the competitive effects of Calcium in diet and to maintain right body levels of Calcium,Phosphorous
and Magnesium for proper bone growth, egg production and shell thickness. The base material fortified
with peptide moiety aids in better absorption of Calcium from the digestive tract and proper mobilization
from medullary bones during.the shell formation process for better egg shells.
             Composition (Each 5 gms contain):
             Calcium -1250 mg ; Phosphorous - 625 mg; Magnesium- 1.05 mg in a fortified base.
             Uses : For thick egg shells, stronger bones, growth and production
                                    Neocalcium
                                               Granules
  The breakthrough that helps your eggs won't break through
                                        For further information,please write to :


                                                        Vesper



                                                     Vesper
                                          #67, 1st Floor 2nd Stage, W.C.R.
                                          Bangalore- 560 0860:3321910.                          ves/ reo/2-S7
