Vesher's   NEPHROCARE




                              KIdhey




             Vesper
                               Catalyzes Research
                               Creates Products
                 Since 1978    Cares Customers
feshers
The urinary system of the birds filters,secretes, absorbs, stores and eliminates urine
 periodically,the urinary system consist of paired trilobed kidneys, one on each side of
the ventral surface of the vertebral column. Ureters carry the urinary waste to the
urodeum ofthecloaca.Avian kidneys are divided into units called lobules. Each lobule
has a cortex (outer area) and medulla (or medullary cone). In terms of volume,the
avian kidney is primarily cortex (71-81%). plus a relatively small medulla (range 5
15%)& blood vessels larger than capillaries (range 10-13%).
The functional unit of the kidney is the nephron. Avian kidneys have two kinds of
nephrons. A reptilian-type, with no loops of Henle are located in the cortex, and a
mammalian-type with long or intermediate length loops, are located in the medulla. In
birds, only a small percentage of nephrons (15-25%) contain a loop of Henle (i.e.
loopednephrons). Nephrons filter the blood plasma to eliminate waste products, but,
in doing so, must not lose needed materials (like glucose) or too much water. Blood
enters nephrons via small arteries called afferent arterioles. This blood enters the
glomerulus (a collection of capillaries) under high pressure and filters' through the
walls of the capillaries and the walls of a surrounding structure called a capsule.
                                          Plasma is filtered from the glomerular
                                           capillaries into the glomerular capsule.
                                           Filtrate then travels through the tubules
                                          and loop of Henle before entering the
                                          collecting duct.
                                          The filtrate that moves from the glomerular
                                          capsule into the proximal tubules is
                                          basically plasma without protein (the
                                          protein molecules are too large).

That filtrate, therefore, contains lots of important substances. In the proximal
convoluted tubules, those needed substances such as vitamins and glucose are
reabsorbed into the blood.

Gout is a common metabolic disorder that results in abnormal accumulation of
urates in kidneys and several other organs of the birds body.
Gout is a generic term for a disease of poultry called toxic nephritis. Nephritis is the
inflammation of the idneys. The toxic part is usually caused by uric acid. Uric acid
isthe biproduct of the metabolism of nitrogen from ingested feed.
The Uric Acid is produced mainly in the liver, and the Uric Acid is eliminated via the
kidneys. Gout usually present itself in two different forms. The visceral form
develops urate deposits on any of the internal organs. The articular form forms
urates in the joints causing severe swelling of the joints. Numerous factors are
responsible for this condition like imbalance of calcium and phosphorus, feeding high
calcium diets to chicks and growers, urea adulteration,. mycotoxins (Aflatoxins,
Ochratoxins and Oosporin), high protein levels in feed, poor quality proteins, use of
rock phosphate, bacterial and viral infections, Zinc and other heavy metal toxicity,
use of certain antibiotics (Gentamycin, Sulfa drugs), certain Genetic problems etc.,
 anyone or a combination of the above mentioned can damage the kidneys, reducing
their function leading toGout HPSorAscites.




Having studied this problem for over a period, Vesper Pharmaceuticals is
pleased to present Nephrocare, its breakthrough research product. Nephrocare
contains Nephromodulator substances, Sodium Fluoride, Butyric Acid and
Aminonitrogrn carefully derived from various sources in afortified base. Sodium
fluoride is a known kidney stimulant. Butyric acid reduce the chances of kidney
damage by pathogens. Other Nephromodulator substance improve the
physiological functioning capacity of the renal system while also rejuvenating the
kidneys. As a net result, the renal system will be perform better.
Sequel to this, the bird health and performance will be improved greatly as the
detoxification mechanism,endogenous Vitamin C generation, reabsorption of vital
nutrients/electrolytes, haemopoiesis (blood formation) etc., wil be better.


                                                                             Catalyzes Research
                                                                             Creates Products
                                                                             Cares Customers
                                                                     VISIONeeae Tabers
Vesher.
Nephrocare reduces the mortality due to Gout/Ascites, assists faster rejuvenation of
renal tissue and improves profitability of poultry farming.
COMPOSITION
Nephromodulators, Sodium Fluoride, Butyric Acid with Aminonitrogen ina fortified
base.

INDICATIONS
To Improve and stimulate renal functioning in the management of Gout, HPS and
Ascites.

 USAGE INSTRUCTIONS
 Liquid :- Add1 ml/Liter of drinking water. or as recommended by the Veterinarian.
 Feed :- 1 kgper ton of feed. or as recommended by the Veterinarian.
 PRESENTATION
 LIQUID:- 1 liter & 5 liters jar.
 FEED:- 20 kg Bag.



                                        Vesper

                                             Since 1978

                                  Manufactured by:
                      Vesper Pharmaceuticals
                               Post, Bangalore, Karnataka, 560097,
           Singapura, Vidyaranyapura
                         Ph: 080-23254255 Fax: 080-23254244
           Email: vespergroupvet@gmail.com Web: www.vespergroupvet.com
                           ISO 9001-2015 Certified Company
                                                                         Catalyzes Research
                                                                         Creates Products
                                                                         Cares Customers
