                  RESPIRUN
                        INSPIRES RESPIRAT|ON




Note : Antibiotic course (5-7 days @ 15-20 paise/bird/day) is both costly and has undesirable effects on feed
intake and productivity. Respiron (7 days @ 3-4 paise/bird/day) can improve the response to antibiotic and
reduce its course to 3-4 days. This alone can save about Rs. 3000- 4000 per batch of 10000 birds apart from
better productivity.
                                           REPIRTN,
                                         INSPIRES RESPIRATION
                                                          Cạ +HeGHCO> H + HÇO
                                                                                 dioxide that is exhaled by controlling the speed
  The respiratory regulatory centers in the brain regulate the amount of carbon(C02) leveldecreases and blood becomes more
  and depth of breathing, When breathing is increased blood Carbon Dioxide and blood becomes more acidic. By adjusting
  basic. When breathing is decreased blood Carbon Dioxide (Co2) level increases                         the blood pH minute by
  the speed and depth of breathing the respiratory regulatory centers and lungs are able to regulate
  minute.

 An abnormality in this control mechanism of pH can cause one of the major disturbances in acid - base balance. i.e. acidosis or
             These conditions are not diseases but they are the result of a variety of disorders  and disturbances.   Metabolic
 alkalosis. and
 acidosis       metabolic alkalosis are caused by an imbalance in theproduction and excretion of acids or bases by the kidneys.
 Respiratory acidosis or alkalosis are primarily caused by lung and breathing disorders. Kidneys also try to compensate by
 excreting more acid in the urine.
 During respiratory distress as in case of CORYZA,CRD, RDC etc. mucus accumulates in alveolar spaces of lungs causing severe
 discomfort, reduced rate and depth of breathing and reduced rate of gaseous exchange between lungs and the environment.
 However the genetic makeup willnot allow the birds to slow their metabolic rate. High energy diets continue to demand for
 more oxygen for energy derivation producing Carbon dioxide (Co2), the excretion of which cannot match the accumulation
 leading to Respiratory acidosis resulting in greater distress,discomfort, drowsiness, poor resistance, low productivity and poor
 performance.
 CYTOKINESTORM
 The cytokine storm is the systemic expression of healthy and igorous immune system resulting in the release of more than 150
 inflammatory mediators (cytokine, oxygen free radicals and coagulatory factors). The cytokine storm is an exaggerated
immune response that is caused by rapidly proliferating and highly activated T cells and Natural Killer (NK) cells which are
activated by infected macrophages. This cytokine storm should be suppressed.

During respiratory infection the cytokine storm affects lungs damaging alveoli and lung tissue resulting in more mortality.
Pulmonary surfactant is an unique mixture of lipids and surfactant specific proteins that cover the entire alveolar surface of
lungs (air sacs). Pulmonary surfactants reduce the surface tension at the air-liquid interface throughout lungs forming a layer
between the air and liquid interface.

Respiron modifies the bio physical behaviour of the lungs. The immuno potentiating properties make Respiron a fascinating
compound in adaptive immunity of the lungs. The surfactant in Respiron acts as a first line defense against invading
organisms. Respiron improves bronchial clearance by its mucolytic action.
CONTENTS:
Alkalizers, Urinary Acidifiers, buffers and Amino nitrogen in fortified base.
FEED PREMIX: 1kgx 25 Drum
25Pkts per drum.
500 gms-1 kg per tonof feed or as recommended.
USAGE INSTRUCTIONS:
During Respiratory Distress 1 ml. per liter of water for 4 days with prescribed antibiotic.
withdrawing antibiotic for better results. In susceptible flocks as a precautionary measureContinue  Respiron for 3 days after
                                                                                             0.5-1 ml. per liter of water. Or as
recommended by the Veterinarian.
PACKING:
1Ltr., 5 Ltr. & 30 Ltrs.
                                                  For any further information, please write to:

           Vesper
                                        Vesper Pharmnaceuticals
                                          Singapura, Vidyaranayapura Post, Bangalore - 560 097                  Catalyzes Research
                                           Tele: 23254277, 23254255, Fax.: +91-80-23254244                      Creates Products
                                  E-mail.: vespergroupvet@gmail.com Website.: www.vespergroupvet.com            Cares Customers
  Diflerentiates the Ditference                 An ISO 9001:2008 Certified Company
                                                                                                       VISIONe eae Taéenu
