   VESMIN FORTE
             FEED PREMIX




Çhelated race Minerals with Probiotics,
      and Saccharomyces Yeast
                                 VESMIN FORTE
VESMIN FORTE js a Chelated Trace Mineral Premix for poultry containing optimum       levels of allthe
essential trace minerals in the form Mineral Proteionates to ensue superior bioavailability   of the
minerals required for normal functioning as well as to be healthy and to maintain high standards of
production. Chelated Trace Minerals are organic forms of essential minerals such    as Manganese,
 Zinc,Copper, Cobalt, Iron, lodine, Chromium and Selenium. Birds   digest, absorb and assimilate the
organic mineral chelates better than the inorganic minerals.
Different minerals have different levels of bioavailabilty. Before a trace mineral is absorbed, it must
become attached to an organic molecule or Escort'. This process allows the minerals to pass
throughthe intestine into the bloodstream and on to tissues and organs for utilization.
Chelated Trace Minerals have been developed by binding the mineralstoproteinates to increase their
bioavailabilty. The pathway of normal trace minerals absorption is different from proteinatedtrace
minerals. Hence there is no competition for use of the same uptake mechanism. The bioavailability
of Proteinated Trace Minerals is much higher, they are easily transported and the intestinal absorption
is increased by about 50%.
COMPOSITIONS:
Each kg contains:- Manganese 80 gm, Zinc 80 gm, Copper 15gm, Cobalt 0.5 gm, Iron 60gm, lodine 1
gm, Chromium 12.5 mg, Selenium 0.3 gm, Lactobacillus 1.5 million spores, Saccharomyces
Cerevisiae 10x 10" CFU, AminoNitrogen q.s. in fortified base.
 ADVANTAGES:
Chelated Trace Minerals (CTM) are readily soluble in the intestinal contents enabling the product to
be homogeneously distributed in the intestinal contents and to be able to reach the surface of the
intestinal tract for better absorption. The CTM is more stable in the intestinal tract. It protects the
minerals from antagonists present in the diet and also from the gut pH as it passes through the
digestive tract. The CTM is absorbed more readily than the inorganic form of the mineral. The CTM
improves metabolic utlization of the trace minerals by reducing the interaction, protecting from
sequestration in cells and binding with dietary and physiologicalconstituents.
INDICATIONS:
Replaces the inorganic trace minerals in feed. Chelated Trace Minerals are more stable and are
protected from adverse reactions of other nutrients which could reduce their rate of absorption.
 Prevents competition for absorption among minerals. Chelated Trace Minerals are instant mineral
source during stress and deficiency. Better health, production and reproduction. Reduces the
indidences of leg weakness and broken eggs.
                                                                              PRESENTATION:
USAGE INSTRUCTIONS:                                                          20 kg bag.
750 gm to1kg perton offeed.
 Or as recommended by the Veterinarian.
                 Manufactured by
  Vesper         VESPER PHARMACEUTICALS
                 Singapura, Vidyaranyapura Post, Bangalore - 560 097 INDIA
     Bince 1g7   Customer Care +91 080 23254277
                 Website : www.vespergroupvet.com
                 Email   : info@vespergroupvet.com
                 An ISO 9001-2015& GMP Certified Company
